.\"$Id$
.\"
.TH biew 1 "$Date$" "UNIX"

.SH NAME
.I BIEW
\- console hex viewer/editor and disassembler.

.SH SYNOPSIS
biew [OPTIONS] file...

.SH DESCRIPTION

.I BIEW
(Binary vIEW) is a free, portable, advanced file viewer with
built-in editor for binary, hexadecimal and disassembler modes.

It contains a highlight PentiumIV/K7-Athlon/Cyrix-M2 disassembler,
full preview of MZ, NE, PE, LE, LX, DOS.SYS, NLM, ELF, a.out, arch,
coff32, PharLap, rdoff executable formats, a code guider, and lot of
other features, making it invaluable for examining binary code.

Refer to biew_en.txt and unix.txt files which should come along with
the program package for detailed description of what 
.I BIEW
can do for you -- this manual page describes only several UNIX-specific
features, and is quite useless without the above mentioned documents.

.SH COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
autodetect mode (default)
.TP
.B \-b
view file in binary mode
.TP
.B \-d
view file in disassembler mode
.TP
.B \-h
view file in hexadecimal mode
.TP
.B \-t
view file in text mode
.TP
.B \-s
change size of file to NNN bytes (create, if file does not exist)
.TP
.B \-i
ignore .ini file (create new)
.TP
.B \-?
display help screen

.SH UNIX-specific features of BIEW

1)  Key modifiers are re-mapped as:

.B CTRL+A
=
.I ALT

.B CTRL+C
=
.I CTRL

.B CTRL+S
=
.I SHIFT

i.e. pressing
.B CTRL+A
acts as holding down
.I ALT
, and so on.
.B CTRL+Z
resets modifiers to defaults. Modifiers are also reseted
after any function key is pressed.

2)  There are some limitations on output, i.e. you can't see all characters
as they are (output is filtered to avoid unexpected behavior).

3)  It is possible to use 7bit output.

4)  Configuration file is ~/.biewrc, not biew.ini.


.SH Linux-specific features

Current Linux version of 
.I BIEW
supports two work modes:
console and VT100 compatible terminal. Console version
can act EXACTLY as dos/os2/win32 version, this means
that you can't switch virtual consoles by pressing ALT+Fx,
because these keys are used by
.I BIEW
-- use
.B CTRL+ALT+Fx
combination for that purpose.

Terminal mode should work on any VT100 compatible terminal.

Linux console version uses:
.RS
- scan codes (not keystrokes)
.br
- direct video output via /dev/vcsa
.RE

IMPORTANT! Console mode is invoked only:
.RS
1) if "Direct console access" flag is enabled (F9)
.br
2) on pure virtual terminal
.RE

In any other case VT100 mode is used.

.SH BUGS
There could be few.
You can fix them on your own, or ask authors to do it.

.SH AUTHOR
.I BIEW
is written by
.br
.B Nick Kurshev
<nickols_k@mail.ru>.

UNIX ports are done by
.br
.B Konstantin Boldyshev
<konst@linuxassembly.org>.

.I BIEW
homepage is at
.B http://biew.sourceforge.net
